THE RISE OF THE VIDEO GAME MARKET 

The video game sector in Spain will grow an annual average of 3.6 percent in the next five years, thus reaching 1,096 million euros.

This confirms its relevance in Europe, where it is the fifth largest market, and worldwide, where it is the thirteenth. This is reflected in the annual report prepared by PwC, Entertainment and Media Outlook 2018-2022 Spain, which analyzes the main challenges and opportunities of the media and entertainment industry in Spain and the world.

Although console games will continue to be the main revenue channel in Spain, it is expected to be the sector of casual or social games -games based on apps for Smartphone or tablet, or accessible from a browser, which are usually simple and targeted. to a general public - the one experiencing the most growth. According to the report, an annual average growth of 7.1% is expected in this segment over the next five years, reaching 381 million euros in 2022.

The new monetization strategies are allowing developers of this type of game to take advantage of the high penetration of smartphones and it is expected that within this category, revenue from apps will grow 8.5% and reach 335 million euros in the next five years. While the revenue from social browser games will experience a slight drop of 0.8% until 2022.

As for traditional games, a more discreet but steady growth is expected. The improvement in the economic situation in Spain will make the income of this category grow by 1.3% until 2022, reaching 649 million euros.

On the one hand, console games are expected to increase by 0.8% on an annual average and reach 502 million euros in the next five years, thanks to the tactics that companies such as Sony or Microsoft have followed. These are hardware upgrade strategies known as mid-cycle, which consist of the release of improved versions of the consoles to the market, which maintain compatibility with existing games, but offer users better gaming experiences.

On the other hand, PC games will grow 2.8% on an annual average, reaching 46 million euros. Although the expectation is that the sale of physical games will continue to fall - 3.9% until 2022 - it is expected to be offset by the increase in online games and with micro-transactions.

As for eSports, they continue to become popular in Spain, and they are expected to grow by 27.1% over the next five years, reaching 16.2 million euros. This growth is due to the interest that telecommunications companies have aroused, which have found in electronic sports a new battlefield with which to attract and retain new customers.

This new sports modality has more and more followers, and companies such as Movistar, Vodafone or Orange have been able to take advantage of them by launching exclusive channels, sponsoring competitions, or sponsoring teams. The report highlights the role played by eSports broadcast rights revenue. These are expected to grow by 39.6%, thus reaching 6.8 million euros in 2022.


At a global level, the four categories that encompass the sector (traditional games, social games, eSports and advertising on these media) will experience notable growth in line with previous years, and the segment is expected to continue increasing its revenues to a 7.2% annual rate, reaching 149,500 million dollars in 2022.

It is worth highlighting the progress of eSports, which have managed to create a market with sufficient scale and capacity to attract investment worldwide. Total revenue in 2017 is estimated to be 620 million, representing an increase of 43.7% compared to the 432 million dollars generated in 2016. Total revenue forecast for 2022 reaches 1.6 billion dollars, which which represents a growth of 20.6% over the next few years.

According to the document, in global terms the Entertainment and Media sector will continue to be determined by two forces: the high component of innovation in areas such as virtual reality or 4K gaming, and the leverage in traditional titles and sagas, as well as in the models of business already consolidated.